In order to use this spool holder you will need:

1. The printed parts from the [stl directory](../stl/). You will need
   two copies of the holder file (print the same holder object twice),
   one spindle, one clip, and one carriage. If you have a print bed
   that is too small to fit the default holder then you may print the
   holder-short file instead. If you are using a large filament spool
   (such as a "5lb spool") then use the holder, spindle-wide, and
   clip-wide files.

2. PTFE tubing (4mm outside diameter). At least 15cm (6 inches) of
   tubing is needed. It is also recommended to have enough tubing to
   go from the spool holder to the extruder motor. It is recommended
   to use tubing with an inside diameter of 3mm (an inside diameter of
   2mm also works but has higher friction).

3. A ziplock bag (optional). Regular 1Kg spools will fit in "2 gallon
   bags" (13x15inch / 33x38.1cm) that can be widely found in grocery
   stores. It's also possible to purchase thicker ziplock bags online,
   which do a better job at keeping out humidity. A regular 1Kg spool
   will fit in a 12x15inch (30.5x38.1cm) 6mil bag.

4. Desiccant (optional). A few packets of desiccant will help keep the
   filament dry. Look online to purchase desiccant packets that change
   color when they are saturated and that can be microwaved to reuse.

### Assembling the printed parts

It is a good idea to assemble the printed parts without the spool
first as the printed parts may initially be tight.

Align the channels on the spindle with the protrusions on the holder
and insert the spindle into one of the holders. Then turn the spindle
30 degrees to lock the spindle into place.

![spindle](img/spindle.jpg)

Align the spindle channels with the protrusions on the second holder
such that the two holders are about 60 degrees out of alignment. Push
the holder onto the spindle and then twist the holder so that both
holders align. Once you've completed twisting the two holders into
alignment it should not be possible to further twist the two holders
in that direction. At this point the two holders and spindle should be
locked into place.

![align-60](img/align-60.jpg)

Attach the printed "clip" object to the two holders - it should fit
into one of the grooves on the side of the holder and click into
place. The flat side of the clip (the side that was on the print bed
when the clip object was printed) should be facing up and be nearly
parallel with the ground.

Cut two lengths of ptfe tubing each approximately 7.5cm (3 inches)
long. After cutting the tubing inspect the opening on the tubing to
ensure it is still round. If the opening is not round, use a small
pliers to push the tubing back into a round shape.

Hold the carriage object under the clip object so that the round
openings on the carriage are above the flat side of the clip and the
side of the carriage with the small round opening is towards the
spindle. Push a piece of ptfe tubing through the small hole of the
carriage, above the flat side of the clip, and into the larger portion
of the carriage. Once the tubing is inserted the carriage should be
able to move sideways along the clip without detaching from the clip.
Insert the second piece of tubing into the other side of the carriage.

![assembled](img/assembled.jpg)

After completing the initial assembly and verifying that the pieces
fit together, the next steps are to reassemble the pieces with the
filament spool. Keep the filament secure to the filament spool until
it is time to feed the filament through the carriage.

Remove the clip from the holders and remove one of the holders from
the spindle. Then place the spool on the spindle and reattach the
holder. Attach the clip to a side of the spool holder so that the
filament will be pulled under the filament spool on its way to the
printer.

Use a pair of scissors to cut 1mm from one bottom corner of a ziplock
bag. The hole should be just large enough for the filament to pass
through it.

While the spool and spool holder are outside of the bag, carefully
pass the filament through the ptfe tubing and carriage, through the
inside of the bag, and then through the hole in the corner of the bag.

![assembled](img/thread.jpg)

Then place the filament spool into the bag such that it is standing
within the bag (the seal should be at the top).

Add desiccant to the bag and then seal it. An additional length of
ptfe tubing can be used to go from the ptfe tubing on the clip all the
way to the printer's extruder motor.

![filament-in-bag](img/filament-in-bag.jpg)
